user-stories.md, before:

## High Level Use Cases, Stories and Requirements

**As an ISV...**

1. I want a registry service that requires very little technical knowlege to setup or maintain.
1. I want setup to be really simple and take very little time.
1. I want access to end-user `docker pull` metrics data. In many cases I want to integrate with my third-party metrics reporting system.
1. I want to use my own domain name and SSL certificate.
1. I want a service that could be converted into an on-premise solution that I run.

**As the certifying party providing the service...**

1. I have limited IT resources. Running the service must not require much maintainance.
1. I want to automate registry setup, application publishing and system validation.
1. I want registry setup to take minutes
1. I want a service that automatically scales based on load.
1. If something goes wrong I want access to useful troubleshooting information to resolve issues quickly.
1. I want to host my own bits. I do not want to host third-party bits.
1. I want to take advantage of well-known, well-supported cloud services that "just work".

Commit message:

add image federation user story

user-stories.md, after:

## High Level Use Cases, Stories and Requirements

**As an ISV...**

1. I want a registry service that requires very little technical knowlege to setup or maintain.
1. I want setup to be really simple and take very little time.
1. I want access to end-user `docker pull` metrics data. In many cases I want to integrate with my third-party metrics reporting system.
1. I want to use my own domain name and SSL certificate.
1. I want a service that could be converted into an on-premise solution that I run.

**As the certifying party providing the service...**

1. I have limited IT resources. Running the service must not require much maintainance.
1. I want to automate registry setup, application publishing and system validation.
1. I want registry setup to take minutes
1. I want a service that automatically scales based on load.
1. If something goes wrong I want access to useful troubleshooting information to resolve issues quickly.
1. I want to host my own bits. I do not want to host third-party bits.
1. I want to enable "image federation": prevent the uploading of some layers but reference them in metadata.
1. I want to take advantage of well-known, well-supported cloud services that "just work".
